# Where to Start Documentation

Last time revised: 03/02/2023

## 1. 5G-ERA Purpose

The 5G-ERA purpose is to provide an intent-based networking paradigm QoE to support enhanced robot autonomy in real-world applications. It enables cloud-native resource provision over autonomous robots, and standardized APIs by integrating ROS and OSM. It should also showcase the QoE on experimental facilities for vertical applications. For more information, please visit [5g-era.eu](https://5g-era.eu/)     

## What is 5G-ERA Middleware?
5G-ERA Middleware enables cloud-native resource provision over autonomous robots. 5G-ERA supports multiple ROS (Robot Operating System)distributions. It is the objective of 5G-ERA (5th Generation Enhanced Robot Autonomy) which is the link between vertical applications managed by ROS and 5G infrastructure managed by OSM. It realizes the 5G-ERA intent-based network using cloud-native design.  The latest version of the 5G-ERA Middleware is available at the GitHub repository under this [link](https://github.com/5G-ERA/middleware). The Middleware is in active development so the specification and available functionality will grow. This is the instruction for the pre-release version for D4.1 and D4.2 system integration and internal testing. 

## Who is 5G-ERA for (USERS)?
5G-ERA’s main target users are Robotic engineers, especially those who want to migrate or use cloud native robotics systems based on the ROS framework.

## How to use it (Installations, Deployment, and Testing)
This is a basic idea of what is expected to download the software, the utilizations, the primary users, installation, and deployment of the Middleware

### Middleware Initial Configuration
Working procedure on how to configure the environment for running the 5G-ERA Middleware. Testing environment is furthermore for those who want to contribute into the middleware code as an open source 

### Hardware Requirements
The testing environment is based on the Microk8s, the minimal Kubernetes installation. It assumes the use of the Ubuntu 20.04 operating system. For other Linux distributions or other operating systems, the instructions may vary, so check the official guides for installing the respective software.  
Recommended hardware:   

| Requirement | Capacity | 
| ----------- | -------- |
| Processor | 8 Logical cores or above |
| RAM | 16 GB or above |
| Storage space | 100 GB Free Space | 


The further steps;

The first step is to install Docker Engine. The Docker engine is used for the verification of the credentials and pulling the containers from the private AWS registry that Middleware uses. To install the Docker Engine, refer to [Docker's official website](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/) on how to install it on the Ubuntu distro. For easier access to the Docker CLI execute the [post-installation steps](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/). Next is the AWS CLI Installation, for this, please follow the official guide on the [installation process](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html).
For detailed information, on installation, deployment, and testing please visit [Middleware testing guide]

### Network and cloud topology provision:

Edge and Cloud Onboarding can be realized through the internal Middleware APIs or the 5G-ERA Dashboard. 

### Robot provision - (how to provision my robot to the 5gera system)

Onboarding of a new custom Robot to the system, can be generated by onboarding template. The template is a json that needs to be included in the body of the http request. Download the bash script and run it in the robot to get the json file. Furthermore, prepare your http request using a postman or preferred editor. More detailed information can be found here [Robot Onboarding]( https://github.com/5G-ERA/middleware/blob/main/docs/1_Middleware/1_Onboarding/Robot.md)

### How to ask for a plan to deploy some cloud resources:

Planning : Task Planner asks Resource Planner for resources to complete the task, assuming Robot knows Task_id 
Step 1: Action planner will give Resource planner the action sequence 
Step 2: Get Action Sequence
Step 3: Resource planner then iterate through the action sequence
Step 4: List all the relations with images for the action 
Step 5: Mapping for the instance model 
Step 6: Calling Redis API 
Step 7: Adding instance to actions 
Step 8: Returning the task model 

### How to ask for a Replan to deploy some cloud resources:

Replanning : Task planner asks resource planner for resources to complete the replanning of task, assuming Robot knows the task_id to be completed and the pre-selected policy.
Step 1: Administrator gets the preselected policy to the Robot. 
Step 2: Get the action sequence (Action_1)
Step 3: Resource planner will iterate through the action sequence 
Step 4: List all the relations between the entities 
Step 5: Robot_1 has the same network connections with Edge_1 and Edge_2 where the middleware is installed 
Step 6: Mapping of the instance model 
Step 7: Middleware informs Robot of the plan 
Step 8: Redis graph will be updated with latest information (relationship) between Robot and Task
Step 9: Robot provides task_id to middleware
Step 10: Middleware infers the action sequence and placement 
Step 11: Middleware informs robot of the plan 
Step 12: Redis query will give information to the orchestrator 
Step 13: Actions need to be instantiated (*SLAM, *Object Detection, *Navigation)
Step 14: Endpoints of the Replanning will be triggered 
Crucial stages for Replanning 
Step 15: Middleware tries to find another Netapp from the same Netapp family where it is deployed 
Step 16: Middleware changes the placement, putting netapp in more powerful machine, for more information, visit Resource Replanning doc. 

## Youtube Link

5G-ERA Partners have done workshops for a better understanding of the work we are doing for example, middleware installation and deployment, BED Workshop ROS Simulation, Reference Netapp workshops. For more detailed understanding, please visit our youtube channel  [5g-era/youtube](https://www.youtube.com/@5g-era460). It has all the workshop demonstrations and installations step-by-step.

## ROS Compatibility

5G-ERA Middleware is allowing robots from different vertical sectors to use 5G-Based digital skills to enhance their autonomy. The Middleware is the link between vertical applications managed by ROS and 5G infrastructure managed by OSM. The middleware was designed to accommodate a disputed model architecture in which each node in the network: an edge-cloud machine in the topology, has a copy of the middleware running as a KNF function. All the actors of the system are interconnected with a Redis cluster representing the centralized knowledge base which also allows the system to coordinate and act together. Each middleware can orchestrate the deployment of different netApps under the running infrastructure. The planning of best placement is selected by using the data that the middleware entities running in the network publish to the central API. This information includes the status of the machine, CPU usage, and storage availability. This allows for real-life data transport and decision-making. 
 
## Contact  & Communications (Disseminations)

Email : 5g-era-general@robotnik.es

Furthermore, if you want to contact 5G-ERA, please visit the site and send your questionnaire or query [5g-era Contact](https://5g-era.eu/contact/). 
5G-ERA has press releases, conferences, exhibitions, workshops and demos, brochures and factsheets, public deliverables and publications etc can be found here [5g-era dissemination and communications](https://5g-era.eu/dissemination-communication/).  
Consortiums : IQU, EBOS, WINGS, BRINGAUTO, ROBOTNIK, University of Bedfordshire, TWI, HAL Robotics, Brno university, OTE, NECLAB, CALTEK

### Use cases

1. Public protection and disaster relief (PPDR)
2. 5G enhanced semi-autonomous transport
3. 5G enhanced healthcare robots
4. 5G remote assistance for manufacturing process